NAME
    HTML::Table - Create HTML tables using simple interface

INSTALL
    In order to install and use this package you will need Perl version
    5.002 or better.  Installation as usual:

        perl Makefile.PL
        make
        make test
        make install

IMPORTANT V2.00 BETA TEST VERSION
	This version is a beta test of the new v2.xx strand of 
	development, and introduces a new internal representation of
	the table data and attributes.  Please test thoroughly before
	installing in a production environment.

DESCRIPTION
    HTML::Table is used to generate HTML tables for
    CGI scripts.  By using the methods provided fairly
    complex tables can be created, manipulated, then printed
    from Perl scripts.  The module also greatly simplifies
    creating tables within tables from Perl.  It is possible
    to create an entire table using the methods provided and
    never use an HTML tag.

    HTML::Table also allows for creating dynamically sized
    tables via its addRow and addCol methods.  These methods
    automatically resize the table if passed more cell values
    than will fit in the current table grid.

    Methods are provided for nearly all valid table, row, and
    cell tags specified for HTML 3.0.

HISTORY
    This module was originally created in 1997 by Stacy Lacy and whose last 
    version was uploaded to CPAN in 1998.  The module was adopted in July 2000 
    by Anthony Peacock in order to distribute a revised version.  This adoption 
    took place without Stacy Lacy's explicit consent as it proved impossible 
    to contact them at the time.  Although explicit consent was not obtained at 
    the time, there was some evidence that Stacy Lacy was looking for somebody 
    to adopt the module in 1998.

AUTHOR
    Anthony Peacock, a.peacock@chime.ucl.ac.uk
    Stacy Lacy (Original author)
    
    See the Changes file for a full listing of those authors who have 
    contributed patches.

COPYRIGHT
    Copyright (c) 1998-2000 Anthony Peacock, CHIME.
    Copyright (c) 1997 Stacy Lacy

    This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
    modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

